# Predicting-rainfall-in-Australia.
The main aim of this project is to build different classification models to predict rainfall in Australia.

Forecasting when it is going is rain is really important and critical because the intense and irregular amount of rainfall can have a wide range of consequences, such as destroying agriculture crops and farms, damaging property, could help in planning a day or travel journey without any hindrance, and could also help meteorologists and aviation departments beforehand without any future consequences. So a higher predictive forecasting model is necessary for early warnings and alerting people so that it can minimize the risk of life and property and could also lead to better management in such scenarios.
Forecasting rainfall is a tricky task and the findings must be precise. There are a wide variety of devices that are used regularly to forecast rainfall, based on attributes such as the weather conditions, temperature, humidity, pressure, etc.,  Due to the traditional approaches being inefficient, we can achieve accurate results by implementing machine learning algorithms. We can simply achieve better results by analyzing the previous rainfall data along with the factors affecting it to forecast rainfall in the future, with high accuracy.
We can use a variety of machine learning approaches such as regression and classifications models as per our requirements and could also estimate the error between our original data and the predicted model and also rate the performance of the model. Different strategies provide varying degrees of accuracy, therefore it's critical to pick the proper algorithm and model it to meet your needs.
Through this project, we aim to understand better what algorithm must be applied to a given problem statement depending on our problem statement and business goals. The ultimate goal of this project is to build a model which could be used to predict if it is going to rain or not, provide different attributes, and could be extended to usage in any country.

